Untitled
================
Nassr Nama
11/04/2020

## BACKGROUND

UTIs are a major burden of pediatric disease being the most common
bacterial infection in infants three months of age and
younger.<sup>1</sup> UTIs in this age group cause up to 90% of serious
bacterial infections (SBI),<sup>2,3</sup> resulting in over 96% being
hospitalized for a mean of 7.4 days<sup>4</sup> at an average estimated
cost of $4,500.<sup>5</sup> Long term complications include renal
scarring<sup>6</sup> and hypertension.<sup>7</sup> Despite the
significance of UTIs, clear guidelines on management in newborns and
young infants are lacking. Both the Canadian Pediatric
Society,<sup>8</sup> and the American Academy of Pediatrics<sup>9</sup>
have published guidelines on UTIs in children older than two months,
while deferring management of younger infants to individual centers and
clinicians.<sup>10</sup> Commonly encountered questions include: 1) The
appropriate time to switch from intravenous (IV) to oral (PO) treatment;
and 2) the total duration of antibiotics required.<sup>11</sup> Young
infants are typically treated with antibiotics for 10-14 days, with IV
comprising between 3 days and the total duration.<sup>4</sup>
Clinicians’ main concerns are inadequate treatment of SBIs with
shorter antibiotic duration or premature switch to PO options, which may
increase the risk of UTI recurrence, thus putting the child at a higher
risk of morbidity. While some advocate for a more conservative approach
with longer treatment, this is also associated with significant
potential for harm. Longer duration of antibiotics increases the risk of
side effects and maintaining the child on IV antibiotics for the
majority of the treatment course leads to longer hospital
stay,<sup>4</sup> exposure to nosocomial infections<sup>12</sup> and
pain and complications from IV catheters.<sup>13,14</sup> Identifying
the optimal treatment course would ensure adequate bacterial eradication
while minimizing hospital stay and procedures.

Over the last decade, several studies have targeted this question and
current trials are underway.<sup>15</sup> Most trials have been
retrospective, small and not powered to detect change in outcomes with
different durations of antibiotics.<sup>4,11,16–21</sup> No
meta-analysis has been published specific to this population of newborns
and young infants. To provide better patient care based on the best
available evidence, we completed a systematic review of existing
literature for the management of UTIs in neonates and young infants by
means of a meta-analysis. As further primary studies are currently being
conducted, a living systematic review approach will be used in this
study.<sup>22,23</sup> This allows avoiding delays between publication
time and dissemination to decision-makers.<sup>24</sup>

-----

## OBJECTIVES

The overall objective of this study is to undertake a systematic review
and meta-analysis of published data to identify the optimal management
of UTIs in neonates and young infants less than 3 months. The primary
aim is comparison of shorter IV antibiotic duration (≤ 3 days) to longer
durations, with regards to UTI recurrence. Secondary outcomes include
rate of rehospitalization, length of hospital stay, recurrence with same
or different organism and adverse effects of treatment. If data is
available, a second objective is to compare shorter antibiotic courses
(≤ 10 days) to longer ones in terms of UTI recurrence.

-----

## METHODOLOGY

To answer these questions, we will undertake a living systematic review
and meta-analysis. Available publications will be uploaded to an online
database that will be updated at least every 4 months. The protocol of
this study was prospectively registered on PROSPERO. The review follows
the PRISMA guidelines (Table S1). No current systematic reviews or
protocol of reviews has been published or registered that target these
questions. The methodology of the study is similar to what is described
in two Cochrane reviews that targeted pediatric patients with UTI, while
excluding patients under 3 months of age,<sup>25</sup> or not analyzing
them specifically.<sup>26</sup>

### Search strategy:

The search aimed to identify all citations relevant to
neonatal/infantile UTI/Pyelonephritis/Bacteriuria with no filtering of
language or study design. The search strategy was designed and conducted
with support from a UBC librarian (CK) experienced in systematic
reviews. The Ovid MEDLINE search strategy was peer-reviewed by another
librarian (SC) using the PRESS Evidence-Based Checklist. The following
databases were searched: Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL Trials Registry
of the Cochrane Collaboration, Web of Science, LILACS, and Google
Scholar. A comprehensive grey literature search was undertaken:
clinicaltrials.gov, WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform
(ICTRP), Papers First (via WorldCat), Proceedings (via WorldCat),
Networked Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations (NDLTD), ProQuest
Dissertations and Theses Global and OAister (narrowing to
theses/dissertations; via WorldCat). Search was completed on February
25th 2020. The reference list of any included study or relevant
systematic review was searched for other potential eligible studies.

### Eligibility criteria:

Studies were included if they were randomized controlled trials (RCT),
quasi-RCT, observational cohort, or case-control. Studied populations
were patients under 3 months of age with a confirmed diagnosis of UTI,
pyelonephritis or cystitis, that were treated in hospital or as an
outpatient. Studies had to compare different duration of IV/IM
antibiotics, compare different total duration of treatment, or present
enough data to allow separation of patients into the two arms of
interest. There was no restriction on the type of antibiotic, dosage or
frequency, compliance level or the treatment setting. No restriction was
applied on the presented outcomes.

Studies were excluded if they had no patient below three months of age,
or were limited to the following populations: preterms, immune
deficiency disorders, or urological abnormalities (Full list available
in Supplement 2). Case reports/series of 5 patients or less, and studies
of prophylaxis antibiotics were excluded. When studies included eligible
patients under three months as well as older ones, studies were included
if the data for the eligible age group was presented separately. If
studies included data specific to less than one year of age, authors
were contacted to obtain the data for our population of interest.

### Crowdsourcing of study selection:

Citation screening was completed on InsightScope, a platform designed
for crowdsourcing systematic reviews.<sup>27</sup> An email was sent to
all crowd members who had already registered and expressed interest in
participating in future projects. The crowd is mostly comprised of
students with post-secondary training (undergraduate/medical/graduate
students).<sup>28,29</sup> This email was also disseminated through
pediatric interest groups, research interest groups and undergraduate
societies across Canada. A qualification set of 50 citations (containing
6 eligible citations) was created on InsightScope. Two of the expert
reviewers screened these citations to determine the reference standard
to which the crowd members were compared. Screening criteria was
fine-tuned and clarified when there was disagreement between the two
experts. Crowd-members were to demonstrate acceptable performance with
citation screening on the qualification set (sensitivity ≥ 90% and
specificity ≥ 70%).

To improve sensitivity, each abstract was screened independently in
triplicate.<sup>29</sup> When the three crowd-members did not agree, an
expert resolved conflicts. At the full-text stage, the crowd uploaded
the PDFs and screened the full citations. The final list of retained
citations by the crowd was screened by an expert to confirm eligibility.

### Data extraction:

A data extraction form was piloted by two independent experts on 5
eligible citations. Conflicts were discussed and a refined form was used
by the crowd. Data was extracted independently by two crowd members and
verified by one of the expert investigators. The extraction form
included the following: (1) study identification; (2) methodological
characteristics; and (3) risk of bias assessment (as detailed below).

For each arm or group of patients the crowd collected: (1) description
of the population; (2) completed investigations; (3) treatment course
(choice of antibiotics, total duration of antibiotics and the duration
of IV or PO treatment); and (4) outcomes (as detailed below).

When available, data was separately collected for patients that received
≤ 3 days of IV antibiotics and those that received longer courses. If
the total duration of antibiotics was known, data was collected for
those that received ≤ 10 days and those that received more.
Corresponding authors of eligible studies were contacted to obtain any
missing data and confirm whether they were aware of any additional
published or ongoing studies.

### Outcomes:

The primary outcome of the study is UTI recurrence following treatment
regardless of organism. Secondary outcomes defined ad hoc were UTI
recurrence with the same organism, UTI recurrence with a different
organism, length of hospital stay, hospital readmission for UTI,
all-cause hospital readmission, ICU stay, sepsis, adverse events of
treatment, duration of fever or symptoms, bacteriuria after completion
of antibiotics, evidence of renal parenchymal damage, acute kidney
injury, mortality, chronic kidney disease, and hypertension. If a study
presented other outcomes, these were assessed in an exploratory
analysis.

### Risk of bias assessment:

To assess the risk of bias, we used the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for
randomized trials (RoB 2)<sup>30</sup> and the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale
(NOS) for cohort studies.<sup>31</sup> Each citation was independently
assessed by two crowd members and conflicts resolved by one of the
expert investigators. Cohort studies were judged as low risk of bias if
they scored ≥ 7 on the NOS scale, and as moderate risk of bias if they
scored ≥ 5. Confounders that were assessed: (1) severity of UTI at
presentation, (2) age of the patient, (3) presence of bacteremia, and
(4) presence of urinary anatomic abnormalities.

### Meta-analysis:

Where the population and intervention were adequately similar, the
results were pooled in a meta-analysis. With regards to timing of
switching to PO antibiotics, shorter IV courses, defined as ≤ 3 days
were compared with longer durations.<sup>11</sup> For total duration of
antibiotics, we compared shorter course defined as ≤ 10 days to longer
durations.<sup>19</sup> For the primary outcome of UTI recurrence, odds
ratio was used as an effect measure. **A meta-analysis was completed
using a random-effects model (DerSimonian and Laird inverse variance).
** Heterogeneity of treatment effects were explored visually using a
forest plot and statistically using I2 and Cochran’s Q statistic with an
alpha of 0.1 used for statistical significance. Publication bias was
investigated visually using a funnel plot. **The GRADE (Grades of
Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) was used to
evaluate the overall quality of evidence, through consideration of five
domains: risk of bias, inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision and
publication bias. These provided an overall quality of the evidence
rated as high, moderate, low, or very low.**

### Living systematic review:

Eligible citations and available results were uploaded to an online
database, hosted on a GitHub repository, allowing for version control.
The database will be updated at least every four months with any newly
published research. All new citations identified through the updated
search will be uploaded to InsightScope for the crowd to screen and
extract similar to the process done for the original review. Within a
month of every search update, screening will be completed and any newly
identified eligible citations will be incorporated into the review.
Eligible citations are to be uploaded to the online database. The
meta-analysis will also be updated to reflect the most up-to-date
estimates of the measured outcomes.

### Data analysis:

Data analysis was done using R and the package metafor.<sup>32</sup>
Interactive data-analysis on the online databse was generated using the
package shiny.<sup>33</sup> Characteristics of patients that received ≤
3 days of IV antibiotics were compared to those that received longer
durations. Fisher’s exact test was used for binary variables, and
Chi-square was used for non-binary categorical ones.

-----

## RESULTS

### Citation screening:

Overall, 9,698 citations were identified using the search strategy.
**Using the grey litterature, additional 0 citations were added.** At
the abstract level, 9,179 citations were excluded, while 519 moved to
the full-text stage. The crowd uploaded the full-text for those
citations, and an additional 505 citations were excluded. Fourteen
citations were found eligible, covering nine different studies. One
study was published in English (primary)<sup>17</sup>,
French<sup>34</sup>, along with its protocol<sup>35</sup>. Another study
was published as an article (primary)<sup>11</sup> and a
thesis<sup>36</sup>. A third study was published as an article
(primary)<sup>19</sup> and an abstract<sup>37</sup>. Finally, one
study<sup>38</sup> was included as part of a larger analysis
(primary)<sup>4</sup>. Data from the primary citations are presented and
complemented by any details available in the other citations. One study
was only published as abstract<sup>39</sup>. Authors were contacted to
obtain further details.

### Characteristics of included studies:

Details of eligible studies, including study design, target population,
treatment protocol and outcomes are shown in Table 1. Studies were
published between 2006 and 2020. Altogether, the studies reported on
14,107 young infants, with a median size of 172 (Range: 21 — 9147). The
majority of studies were completed in North-America (N= 6), and included
13,716 patients (97.2 %). Five studies were multi-centered (four in the
US and one in France). Except for one RCT, the remaining studies were
retrospective cohorts. Six studies included newborns younger than 1
month. Infants between 1—2 and 2—3 months of age were included in three
and one studies respectively.

UTI cases were selected based on discharge diagnosis or ICD codes in
four studies. Positive urine culture and urinalysis were required to
confirm the diagnosis in seven and three studies respectively. Three
studies selected only patients with fever or systemic symptoms. With
regards to exclusion criteria, infants with meningitis or GU
abnormalities were excluded in four and three respectively. In terms of
bacteremia, two studies targeted bacteremic patients specifically, while
two excluded any patient with bacteremia.

Risk of bias assessment showed a median study score of 6 (Range: 6 — 8)
for the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (Table 1). Details on each domain are
provided in supplements (Table S3). Two retrospective studies were
determined to be at low-risk of bias (NOS ≥ 7). The remaining cohort
studies were at a moderate risk of bias.

### Studied outcomes:

Seven studies assessed the benefits of a short and long duration of IV
antibiotics. In one study, a course of only PO antibiotics was compared
to an initial IV period before switching to PO to complete the treatment
course. Finally, only one study compared a short and long duration of
antibiotics regardless of route of administration.

In terms of outcomes of interest, recurrence was studied the most in 6,
followed by re-hospitalization (N= 5) and deterioration (N= 2).

### Comparison of duration of IV antibiotics:

Different duration of IV antibiotics were compared in seven studies,
including one where no IV antibiotics were given to one arm. Table 3
compares the targeted population between those that received ≤ 3 days of
IV antibiotics and those that received ≥ 4 days. There was a significant
association between age and duration of antibiotics. Compared to
newborns (under one month), infants between 1-2 months and 2-3 months of
age were more likely to receive ≤ 3 days IV antibiotics with OR of 2.23
\[95%CI: 2.06 — 2.41\] and 1.60 \[95%CI: 1.45 — 1.76\] respectively.  
Among those that received the shorter duration, patients were more
likely to be female (OR: 1.65 \[95%CI: 1.44 — 1.89\]) and non-bacteremic
(OR: 11.32 \[95%CI: 8.46 — 15.36\]). No statistical significant
associations were noted between length of IV therapy and the presence of
GU abnormalities (P= 0.052) or presentation with fever and/or systemic
symptoms (P= 1.000).

**Similar comparisons will be done on prematurity, disease severity,
pyuria, meningitis. (Data not currently available for most citations.
Need to contact authors)**

### Primary outcome:

With regards to the primary outcome of UTI recurrence, details divided
by the three days threshold of IV antibiotics were available in 5
studies.<sup>16,18–21</sup> Authors for 3 publications responded and
provided further details.<sup>4,11,17</sup> The overall recurrence rate
was NA% among NA infants. This ranged between 0.0 and 10.2 % in
individual studies. Studies monitored recurrence for a median of 30 days
(range: 14 — 90). Infants that received ≤ 3 days of IV antibiotics were
not more likely to experience recurrence (pooled OR: 1.09 \[95%CI: 0.69
— 1.72\], P= 0.70).

In a subgroup analysis, patients were divided by each month of age. Data
specific for newborns (under 1 month) was available in one
study.<sup>21</sup> There was no difference in UTI recurrence with IV
duration ≤ 3 days in this age group (pooled OR: 1.78 \[95%CI: 0.41 —
7.65\], P= 0.44). **Similar analysis will be done for 1-2 months and 2-3
months, if authors respond with data.**

The primary outcome was also investigated specifically in patients with
bacteremic UTIs. Data specific for this population was available in one
study.<sup>18</sup> There was no difference in UTI recurrence with IV
duration ≤ 3 days in bacteremic patients (pooled OR: 2.94 \[95%CI: 0.50
— 17.39\], P= 0.23).

Beyond duration of antibiotics, studies looked at risk factors for UTI
recurrence. GU abnormalities showed the most consistent results, leading
to an increase of 1.83 (1.20-2.79) in one study.<sup>11</sup> In the
cohort study published by Schroeder et al. VCUG abnormalities were noted
in 100% of patients that relapsed, compared to 32% in those that
didn’t.<sup>4</sup> Initial severity at presentation was studied and
found to be associated with recurrence in one study \[aOR: 1.56
(1.14–2.15) per 1 unit increase of a 4-level severity indicator
derived from All Patient Reﬁned Diagnosis Related Group
grouping\].<sup>4</sup> Gender differences were assessed in two studies.
Brady et al. showed no difference \[Female aOR: 0.98
(0.72–1.33)\].<sup>11</sup> Meanwhile, Lewis showed an increase risk
of recurrence in females after adjusting to covariates (aOR 1.91
(1.09–3.33)\].<sup>16</sup> Similarly, the effect of age was not
consistent, with no observed differences in one study,<sup>11</sup> but
a significant risk for patients under 15 days of life in another \[aOR:
(2.48 (1.13–5.44)) compared to 45-60 days\].<sup>16</sup> Race and
ethnicity did not show significant association with
recurrence.<sup>11,16</sup>

### Secondary outcomes:

Two studies presented data for UTI recurrence with the same organism as
the initial episode.<sup>18,20</sup> Similar to the primary outcome,
infants that received ≤ 3 days of IV antibiotics were not more likely to
experience UTI recurrence with the same organism (pooled OR: 2.81
\[95%CI: 0.24 — 32.72\], P= 0.41).

Hospital length of stay was compared in two studies. Desai <i>et al.</i>
compared this based on IV duration cutoff of seven days.<sup>18</sup>
Patients that received IV course longer than 7 days had a significant
increase in length of stay (adjusted mean difference (95% CI) = 6 (4.0
to 8.8)). Lessard et al. compared this outcome using the three days
cutoff for the duration of IV antibiotics.<sup>19</sup> Patients
receiving antibiotics longer than 3 days had an average stay of 4.7 days
(vs. 2.8 days).

Hospital readmission for UTI or other causes was assessed in 5
studies.<sup>4,11,16,18,39</sup> Patients that received \> 3 days of IV
antibiotics showed an adjusted OR of all-cause readmission of 1.16
(95%CI: 0.83–1.62).<sup>16</sup> Infants who received \> 7 days of IV
antibiotics had an adjusted relative risk for all-cause hospital
reutilization of 1.2 (95%CI: 0.4 to 3.9).<sup>18</sup>

> #### Other outcomes
> 
>   - Pool data for any outcome where two papers are present. When only
>     one is present, present its data from the paper.
>   - Specify which were our a priori defined outcomes: UTI recurrence
>     with the same organism, Length of hospital stay, All-cause
>     Hospital readmission, **Adverse effect of treatment**.
>   - Do the same thing for exploratory ad hoc outcomes.

> <sup>4,11,16–21</sup>

## REFERENCES

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-Ramgopal:2019gp">

1\. Ramgopal S, Janofsky S, Zuckerbraun NS, et al. Risk of Serious
Bacterial Infection in Infants Aged ≤60 Days Presenting to Emergency
Departments with a History of Fever Only. *The Journal of pediatrics*.
2019;204:191-195.
doi:[10.1016/j.jpeds.2018.08.043](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpeds.2018.08.043)

</div>

<div id="ref-Tzimenatos:2018el">

2\. Tzimenatos L, Mahajan P, Dayan PS, et al. Accuracy of the Urinalysis
for Urinary Tract Infections in Febrile Infants 60 Days and Younger.
*Pediatrics*. 2018;141(2):e20173068.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2017-3068](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2017-3068)

</div>

<div id="ref-Byington:2012ki">

3\. Byington CL, Reynolds CC, Korgenski K, et al. Costs and infant
outcomes after implementation of a care process model for febrile
infants. *Pediatrics*. 2012;130(1):e16-24.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2012-0127](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2012-0127)

</div>

<div id="ref-Schroeder:2016fj">

4\. Schroeder AR, Shen MW, Biondi EA, et al. Bacteraemic urinary tract
infection: management and outcomes in young infants. *Archives of
Disease in Childhood*. 2015;101(2):125-130.
doi:[10.1136/archdischild-2014-307997](https://doi.org/10.1136/archdischild-2014-307997)

</div>

<div id="ref-Freedman:2005ic">

5\. Freedman AL, Project UD in A. Urologic diseases in North America
Project: trends in resource utilization for urinary tract infections in
children. *The Journal of urology*. 2005;173(3):949-954.
doi:[10.1097/01.ju.0000152092.03931.9a](https://doi.org/10.1097/01.ju.0000152092.03931.9a)

</div>

<div id="ref-Smellie:1998ip">

6\. Smellie JM, Prescod NP, Shaw PJ, Risdon RA, Bryant TN. Childhood
reflux and urinary infection: a follow-up of 10-41 years in 226 adults.
*Pediatric Nephrology*. 1998;12(9):727-736.
doi:[10.1007/s004670050535](https://doi.org/10.1007/s004670050535)

</div>

<div id="ref-Jacobson:1989fj">

7\. Jacobson SH, Eklof O, Eriksson CG, Lins LE, Tidgren B, Winberg J.
Development of hypertension and uraemia after pyelonephritis in
childhood: 27 year follow up. *BMJ*. 1989;299(6701):703-706.
doi:[10.1136/bmj.299.6701.703](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.299.6701.703)

</div>

<div id="ref-Robinson:2014tm">

8\. Robinson JL, Finlay JC, Lang ME, Bortolussi R, Committee, Canadian
Paediatric Society, Infectious Diseases and Immunization Committee,
Community Paediatrics. Urinary tract infections in infants and children:
Diagnosis and management. *Paediatrics & Child Health*.
2014;19(6):315-319.
doi:[10.1093/pch/19.6.315](https://doi.org/10.1093/pch/19.6.315)

</div>

<div id="ref-AAPuti:2011gh">

9\. Management, Subcommittee on Urinary Tract Infection, Steering
Committee on Quality Improvement and, Roberts KB. Urinary tract
infection: clinical practice guideline for the diagnosis and management
of the initial UTI in febrile infants and children 2 to 24 months. 2011.

</div>

<div id="ref-Joshi:2017ar">

10\. Joshi NS, Lucas BP, Schroeder AR. Physician Preferences Surrounding
Urinary Tract Infection Management in Neonates. *Hospital Pediatrics*.
2017;8(1):21-27.
doi:[10.1542/hpeds.2017-0082](https://doi.org/10.1542/hpeds.2017-0082)

</div>

<div id="ref-Brady:2010ag">

11\. Brady PW, Conway PH, Goudie A. Length of intravenous antibiotic
therapy and treatment failure in infants with urinary tract infections.
*Pediatrics*. 2010;126(2):196-203.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2009-2948](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2009-2948)

</div>

<div id="ref-Langley:1997gr">

12\. Langley JM, LeBlanc JC, Wang EE, et al. Nosocomial respiratory
syncytial virus infection in Canadian pediatric hospitals: a Pediatric
Investigators Collaborative Network on Infections in Canada Study.
*Pediatrics*. 1997;100(6):943-946.
doi:[10.1542/peds.100.6.943](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.100.6.943)

</div>

<div id="ref-Cummings:1996du">

13\. Cummings EA, Reid GJ, Finley AG, McGrath PJ, Ritchie JA. Prevalence
and source of pain in pediatric inpatients. *Pain*. 1996;68(1):25-31.
doi:[10.1016/s0304-3959(96)03163-6](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0304-3959\(96\)03163-6)

</div>

<div id="ref-Kanj:2013dd">

14\. Kanj WW, Gunderson MA, Carrigan RB, Sankar WN. Acute compartment
syndrome of the upper extremity in children: diagnosis, management, and
outcomes. *Journal of Children’s Orthopaedics*. 2013;7(3):225-233.
doi:[10.1007/s11832-013-0492-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11832-013-0492-9)

</div>

<div id="ref-NCT01595529">

15\. The SCOUT Study: "Short Course Therapy for Urinary Tract Infections
in Children". *ClinicalTrialsgov Identifier: NCT01595529*. 2012.
<https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01595529>. Accessed April 11,
2020.

</div>

<div id="ref-LewisdeLosAngeles:2017fo">

16\. Angeles WWL-d los, Thurm C, Hersh AL, et al. Trends in Intravenous
Antibiotic Duration for Urinary Tract Infections in Young Infants.
*Pediatrics*. 2017;140(6):e20171021.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2017-1021](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2017-1021)

</div>

<div id="ref-Bocquet:2012gc">

17\. Bocquet N, Alaoui AS, Jais JP, et al. Randomized Trial of Oral
Versus Sequential IV/Oral Antibiotic for Acute Pyelonephritis in
Children. *PEDIATRICS*. 2012;129(2):e269-e275.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2011-0814](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2011-0814)

</div>

<div id="ref-Desai:2019sd">

18\. Desai S, Aronson PL, Shabanova V, et al. Parenteral Antibiotic
Therapy Duration in Young Infants With Bacteremic Urinary Tract
Infections. *Pediatrics*. 2019;144(3):e20183844.
doi:[10.1542/peds.2018-3844](https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2018-3844)

</div>

<div id="ref-Lessard:2020jft">

19\. Lessard D-A, Huard-Girard T, Tremblay A, Turcotte J-F. Transition
to oral antibiotic therapy for pyelonephritis in children under 60 days
of age: An observational retrospective cohort study. *Paediatrics &
Child Health*. 2020.
doi:[10.1093/pch/pxz164](https://doi.org/10.1093/pch/pxz164)

</div>

<div id="ref-Magin:2007clc">

20\. Magín EC, García-García J-J, Sert SZ, Giralt AG, Cubells CL.
Efficacy of short-term intravenous antibiotic in neonates with urinary
tract infection. *Pediatric emergency care*. 2007;23(2):83-86.
doi:[10.1097/pec.0b013e3180302c47](https://doi.org/10.1097/pec.0b013e3180302c47)

</div>

<div id="ref-Alvarez:2006mmg">

21\. Álvarez MD, Paz MTF de la, Estévez RR, García MM.
Antibioticoterapia parenteral en la infección urinaria neonatal.
*Revista Cubana de Pediatría*. 2006;78:0-0.
<http://scielo.sld.cu/scielo.php?script=sci\_arttext\&pid=S0034-75312006000100004\&nrm=iso>.

</div>

<div id="ref-Elliott:2014hp">

22\. Elliott JH, Turner T, Clavisi O, et al. Living systematic reviews:
an emerging opportunity to narrow the evidence-practice gap. *PLoS
medicine*. 2014;11(2):e1001603.
doi:[10.1371/journal.pmed.1001603](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1001603)

</div>

<div id="ref-Elliott:2017lp">

23\. Elliott JH, Synnot A, Turner T, et al. Living systematic review: 1.
Introduction—the why, what, when, and how. *Journal of Clinical
Epidemiology*. 2017;91:23-30.
doi:[10.1016/j.jclinepi.2017.08.010](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinepi.2017.08.010)

</div>

<div id="ref-Jonnalagadda:2015gr">

24\. Jonnalagadda SR, Goyal P, Huffman MD. Automating data extraction in
systematic reviews: a systematic review. *Systematic reviews*.
2015;4(1):78.
doi:[10.1186/s13643-015-0066-7](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-015-0066-7)

</div>

<div id="ref-Michael:2003vam">

25\. Michael M, Hodson EM, Craig JC, Martin S, Moyer VA. Short versus
standard duration oral antibiotic therapy for acute urinary tract
infection in children. *Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews*.
2003;(1):CD003966.
doi:[10.1002/14651858.cd003966](https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.cd003966)

</div>

<div id="ref-Strohmeier:2014jcc">

26\. Strohmeier Y, Hodson EM, Willis NS, Webster AC, Craig JC.
Antibiotics for acute pyelonephritis in children. *Cochrane Database of
Systematic Reviews*. 2014;7(7):CD003772.
doi:[10.1002/14651858.cd003772.pub4](https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.cd003772.pub4)

</div>

<div id="ref-Nama:2017fz">

27\. Nama N, Iliriani K, Xia MY, et al. A pilot validation study of
crowdsourcing systematic reviews: update of a searchable database of
pediatric clinical trials of high-dose vitamin D. *Translational
pediatrics*. 2017;6(1):18-26.
doi:[10.21037/tp.2016.12.01](https://doi.org/10.21037/tp.2016.12.01)

</div>

<div id="ref-Nama:2019er">

28\. Nama N, Sampson M, Barrowman N, et al. Crowdsourcing the Citation
Screening Process for Systematic Reviews: Validation Study. *Journal of
Medical Internet Research*. 2019;21(4):e12953.
doi:[10.2196/12953](https://doi.org/10.2196/12953)

</div>

<div id="ref-Nama:2020jdm">

29\. Nama N, Barrowman N, O’Hearn K, Sampson M, Zemek R, McNally JD.
Quality Control for Crowdsourcing Citation Screening: The Importance of
Assessment Number and Qualification Set Size. *Journal of Clinical
Epidemiology*. 2020.
doi:[10.1016/j.jclinepi.2020.02.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinepi.2020.02.009)

</div>

<div id="ref-Sterne:2019:nsb">

30\. Sterne JAC, Savović J, Page MJ, et al. RoB 2: a revised tool for
assessing risk of bias in randomised trials. *BMJ (Clinical research
ed)*. 2019;366:l4898.
doi:[10.1136/bmj.l4898](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.l4898)

</div>

<div id="ref-NOS:Cohort">

31\. Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale: Cohort studies.
<http://www.ohri.ca/programs/clinical\_epidemiology/oxford.htm>.
Accessed February 25, 2020.

</div>

<div id="ref-Viechtbauer:2010">

32\. Viechtbauer W. Conducting Meta-Analyses in R with the metafor
Package. *Journal of Statistical Software*. 2010;36(3).
doi:[10.18637/jss.v036.i03](https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v036.i03)

</div>

<div id="ref-Chang:2020jm">

33\. Chang W, Cheng J, Allaire J, Xie Y, McPherson J. *shiny: Web
Application Framework for R*.; 2020.
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=shiny>.

</div>

<div id="ref-366105556">

34\. N. B, A. SA, J.-P. J, et al. Randomized trial of oral versus
sequential intravenous/oral antibiotic for acute pyelonephritis in
children. *Annales Francaises de Medecine d’Urgence*. 2012;2(6):372-377.

</div>

<div id="ref-NCT00136656">

35\. Treatment of Acute Pyelonephritis With Gram Negative Strains in
Infants and Children Less Than 3 Years Old. *ClinicalTrialsgov
Identifier: NCT00136656*. 2005.
<https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00136656>. Accessed February 25,
2020.

</div>

<div id="ref-ucin1299169787">

36\. Brady PW. Duration of intravenous antibiotics and treatment failure
in infants hospitalized with urinary tract infections. 2010.

</div>

<div id="ref-622972964">

37\. Lessard D-A, Tremblay A, Huard-Girard T, Turcotte J-F. Safe
transition to oral antibiotic therapy for pyelonephritis in children
under 2 months of age: A retrospective study. *Paediatrics and Child
Health (Canada)*. 2018;23(Supplement 1):e40.

</div>

<div id="ref-Roman:2015ar">

38\. Roman HK, Chang PW, Schroeder AR. Diagnosis and Management of
Bacteremic Urinary Tract Infection in Infants. *Hospital Pediatrics*.
2015;5(1):1-8.
doi:[10.1542/hpeds.2014-0051](https://doi.org/10.1542/hpeds.2014-0051)

</div>

<div id="ref-70982248">

39\. Jafri S, Adkison J, Zayas J. Associated morbidityand mortality of
neonatal urinary tract infections in full term, healthy neonates with
varied treatment approaches; 5 year retrospective chart review. *Journal
of Investigative Medicine*. 2012;60(1):397-398.

</div>

</div>
